---
title: "Why mnml"
slug: "Why mnml"
date: 2020-05-18T10:00:00-05:00
draft: false
publishdate: 2020-05-18T10:00:00-05:00
tags:
- article
---

My girlfriend asked me about the title of this site. She wanted to know why I chose mnml. Was it a reference to minimalism or did it carry some particular meaning? I have spent a few months thinking about the question because I did not have an answer. The truth is that I did not place much effort in the decision. I own several domains. I occasionally buy them if I have an idea. 90% of them are unused. It's silly. So, there is no great origin story. This site started under a different domain. I changed my mind and repurposed that server and domain. I chose to host these thoughts and links under the mnml.blog domain because it seemed fitting. Maybe it is worthwhile to dissect the decision for my own benefit.

## mnml Is Not About Material Minimalism

Certain friends have jokingly accused me of being a minimalist. In one case I was told that I might even be an ascetic. I can understand the reasoning behind the jokes. There are certain parts of consumer culture that I have no interest in. I maintain a ridiculously small, outdated wardrobe. My home has no extraneous furniture. I have a television for my kids, but I rarely watch it. I survive primarily on cereal and Community brand coffee.

That does not mean that I have few possessions. I have no problem spending money on the people I love and the things I enjoy. I have many books. I have a workspace for 3D printing and hobby electronics that is overstocked. It is tidy but not clean. I have two cars. Yes, one driver and two cars. I own more computing equipment than any single person needs. Industrial design is important to me. I have bought certain things just because they have a classic design. 

No, this site is not about my purchasing decisions, my style, or my need to simplify a stressful life. It is not about things at all.

## mnml Is About Communication

I once watched a television show. I have long since forgotten the name of the show. I only remember one thing about this show. A teacher is standing in front of a room of students. He assigns the class a writing assignment. The teacher either writes on the board or asks the class to explain the essence of effective communication. A girl in the front row writes one word, hands her paper to the teacher and walks out the door. The teacher is visibly annoyed, but his annoyance turns to a smile as he turns the paper over and sees "Brevity".

>*Brevity - Definition: concise or exact use of words in writing or speech*

I don't have an agenda here. I am sharing information that I find interesting or helpful. Writing helps me to make sense of my feelings and beliefs. It helps me make better or at least more informed decisions. mnml conveys the entire word minimal in a concise form. It is a reminder that I should practice brevity in word and thought.

## mnml Is About Maximizing Effectiveness

It is common to solve engineering problems by framing them as optimizations. We look for solutions to problems by finding the roots of an equation, or more often, the local minimum of a system. I've heard it said that all problems are minimization problems. What if you want to find a max? Multiply by -1 and solve for the minimum.

Minimization is a form of optimization. The converse is also a type of optimization. When we minimize something we almost always maximize something else. Achieving brevity is worthwhile because it approaches optimal communication. We can provide maximum understanding through minimum communication. It is a balancing act. I believe it is a worthwhile goal.

I hope to improve my effectiveness as a communicator here. If I come to a better understanding of myself and the world I have succeeded. If I pass on some bit of understanding to others I will be pleased.
